In the first few generations of space exploration, independent corporations,
driven only by their own profit and lust for power, battled for control of the
local group.

As the horrible treatment of colonists as effectively free slaves and their
callous treatment - sometimes thousands of people ejected into space to cut
profit margins - filtered back to the Federation, demands to do bring these
rouge corps under control grew louder and louder.

Eventually, the Federation drove them back through massed invasions into their
heavily protected strongholds.  In doing so, they developed new ways to travel
and to fight.

And not a moment too soon... looking back, the Corps are remembered as being
the driving force behind the tactics and equipment needed to hold back the
forces of the Others.

Just before the Federation managed to bring the local group under peaceful
reign, word of planets and ports being wiped out along the fringe began
filtering back.

Initially, it was assumed it was a small number of old corps turned completely
to revenge.  When the FSS Resolute managed to get back to core FedSpace after
surviving a running battle with the relentless drones of the Others, the
terrible truth came to light.

As the Federation turned more and more of its citizens economic might toward
the fight, it became increasingly obvious that as with all other things,
government bureaucracy was more of a hinderance than a help.  Learning lessons
from the past, the Federation turned the war into a for-profit industry for
private companies.

Those suited to fleet maneuvers were funded by heavy taxes on the merchant
trader classes, and the production of entire worlds turn once more to war.
This time though the goal wasn't profits, but the very survival of the species.

Fresh out of school, riding the wave of promise of your tactical abilities, you
have been assigned a merchant trader to help fund the war effort.  The best of
the merchent traders dream of being able to provide enough support to the war
effort to be able to take the battle to the fringe worlds.

Those who prove their mettle can become heroes and rather than working to fund
the war can, on their own terms take part directly.  For these special few,
mere trading and support of the cause is not their greatest contribution.
These people, mastering the skills in battling pirates and sharp trading, then
will become humanities ultimate hope.

The road to glory is a hard one, first trading, then fighting the pirates,
remenents of the old corps, and rebellious groups of traders who, despite the
impending doom of humanity are still working to forward their own agendas at
the expense of the future generations of humanity.

Finally, with hard won experience and well earned funding, the surviving elite
will probe into the attacks in the fringe worlds, being supported by a grateful
public.  With enough if these elite working toward this shared goal, the Others
CAN be driven out of our galaxy completely.

This is your duty... your destiny.

As you walk up the gangplank to your new command, you fix your steely gaze just
above the horizon, ignoring the breeze frolicking in your golden locks as you
determinedly stare down the future of humanty... your laser precise
concentration fixed on the barely perceptible goal that is... hope.
