
             S O L O M O R I A H ' S

           X    X    XX    XXXXX    XXX
           X    X   X  X   X    X   XXX
           X    X  X    X  X    X   XXX
           X    X  XXXXXX  XXXXX     X 
           X XX X  X    X  X   X       
           XX  XX  X    X  X    X   XXX
            X  X   X    X  X    X   XXX


WAR Version 4.4                       "Code by Solomoriah"
Copyright 1993, 1994, 2001, 2013 Chris Gonnerman
All Rights Reserved.
 

INTRODUCTION 
 
Two separate doc files are included with WAR!  The one you 
are reading, Manual, explains how to set up and run the 
game.  The other file, Rules, explains the user 
interface and basic game rules.  
 
 
GAME SETUP 
 
Since you are reading this file, you have obviously unZIPped 
the game archive WARPROG.ZIP.  Put all the program files in 
a directory by themselves.  
 
Several basic game worlds are included with WAR!  A game 
world is stored in two files: map and game.sav.  map is 
never changed by the game programs (except WARTOOL), while 
game.sav will be.  game.sav will be backed up in the form of 
files named game.000, game.001, etc.  WAR! will clean up 
(remove) old game save backups when they are five 
generations out of date.  
 
A third file, master.cmd, is supplied.  Generally you should 
not tamper with the contents of any files you find in the 
WAR! directory.  
 
To install a game world, the easiest thing to do is to unZIP 
the world file (WARSOLO.ZIP, WARALDER.ZIP, or WARROOK.ZIP) 
in the directory you put the game programs in.  Other 
arrangements will be explained later under the CONTROL FILES 
heading.  
 
 
PLAYING WAR! STANDALONE 
 
To play WAR! change to the WAR directory and enter the 
command WAR.  For example, if you installed WAR! in the 
directory C:\WAR, you would start WAR! as follows: 

    C:\> cd \war
    C:\WAR> war

When WAR! starts, it will ask you for your UID.  Any number 
from 1 to 32,768 is legal.  The first time you play a turn 
in WAR! you will be assigned a home city and asked for the 
name of your national leader.  You may use any name you 
like, up to 14 characters in length.  WAR! will then go to 
the main screen.  See the Rules file for information on 
actually playing the game.  
 
 
RUNNING UPDATES 
 
Running updates is done the same way.  Change to the 
directory WAR! is installed in and enter the command WARUPD.
WARUPD sends progress messages to stdout, so you can collect 
them as follows: 

    C:\WAR> warupd >message.txt

On a BBS system you may want or need to automate the update 
processing.  Note that WARUPD will run even if someone is 
actively playing WAR! (I'm still thinking about how to fix 
that), so you should try to run the updates when no one will 
be playing the game.  
 
It is recommended for normal BBS game play that updates be 
run every 24 hours.  
 
 
WARNEWS 
 
WARNEWS is a stand-alone news viewer for WAR! It presents 
the same user interface that the regular WAR program does in 
newsreader mode.  
 
 
WARMAP 
 
WARMAP combines the MAP and GAME.SAV files to create an 
up-to-date map of the WAR! world.  As with WARUPD, the map 
is printed to stdout and may be collected in a file as 
follows: 

    C:\WAR> warmap >file.txt

To print most maps you will need to put your printer in 
condensed print.  To view the map on the screen you will 
need a file viewer or editor that can scroll sideways.  The 
MS-DOS 5 EDIT command can do this.  
 
